Hello everybody and welcome back.
In order to do this advanced cursor manipulation we're going to need something to make sure we can do
it properly.
So let's go and grab a list of words.
Now I'm going to just google word less than see what we get.
Word lost.
There we go.
Great typing Mike.
And here we go.
So go ahead pick a series of words I'm probably going to pick a thousand words here a thousand most
common words in English.
Now this list is going to have non ISO grams in it but we can use the is ISO gram function to filter
out those that are non ISO grams.
And we'll get to that in a nother lecture.
So it pulls a video briefly here.
Go copy some words and paste them over into your hidden word list and I'll see you back in a few moments
OK so I'm back over MVS code and we've got our text macros here.
This is the issue.
So if we go ahead and just paste in a series of words.
Oh.
Fortunately they've all come out on one line which makes our work so much easier.
But there's a good chance that perhaps they came out all on one line instead of separated like that.
So we need to make sure that we've got a cursor at the beginning of each of these words so that we can
add in the text macro.
Now how on earth do we do that.
Well we could hold down control if it was a shorter list and just place in a couple of cursors come
along and go text open brackets and pop them in like this but then we need to get to the end of the
word and do the rest.
This is this is really annoying.
It's all gone out of sync.
Now you have to reset.
Now imagine doing that a couple of thousand times a couple of thousand times and pop the camera on the
end and you'd just go crazy.
It wouldn't work at all.
And of course here it looks like I've accidentally deleted the end as well.
So that's not great.
So how do we go ahead and select the beginning of every word.
Well before we do anything the first thing we need to do is highlight everything that we want to work
on.
Now that's quite a few lines of code.
There we go.
So I've highlighted all 1000 odd words that we need to work on.
And now I need to place the cursor at the beginning of every word.
And at the end of every word.
And of course there'll be one exception at the very end where we can put that comma in because your
self won't need one.
Now we can get it these operations a couple of ways.
Some of them are under the selection because we've selected everything we can do something with the
selection.
So you can see here we've actually got ad cursor above below and we're not adding a curse so we're adding
cursors.
And it gives us an option here to add cursors to line ends.
Let's use that one first so we can see the shortcut key here is shift out an eye.
And what does that do.
Excellent.
So it's placed a cursor on the end of all of our selection which is really useful because now we can
put in our quotation mark are close brackets and the comma.
Now remember the last one does not need the comma.
So if we go down right to the end we will have to remove the comma from that final one.
But what about the beginning.
That's really irritating.
It's got an option for the end and not for the beginning.
And there's a reason for that because you can use the home key to go to the beginning of any line.
So all we need to do is go shift Alton eye.
It places the cursor at the very end of all of our lines and then we can press the home key the home
key will move the cursors to the beginning of every line and you probably guessed it the end key takes
it to the end of every line.
So let's go to home and then we can type in text open our brackets and add in the missing quotation
mark and then we go we've actually managed to very quickly add all of that to a thousand words.
We should be a real pain in the backside to do otherwise.
Now one of the things that you can do.
Let's go back up to the top four this is you can also use the control key and the arrow keys to jump
to the end of individual elements of your code which is really useful.
If we had a series of words typed out instead of going down the pages made our job really really easy.
We can let's just say we've got word one word two words three word four.
We could have very easily jumped between those words using the cursor keys.
Now notice as we go back is going to the beginning of the word and when we go forward is going to the
end of the words that would have enabled us very quickly to separate out words if we wanted to.
And one final thing that you may find incredibly useful these are all the same I to select all of those
things that were the same.
I could go and select the word and go noticed that they're all highlighted which is useful.
But then I can go control an f 2 and it selects all of those words and I can edit them all individually
very much like a find and replace.
Now do be careful with multi cursors.
It's very easy to let's say have this curse at the top here and add some additional multi curses and
then do something and not realize you've added something or deleted something elsewhere in the code.
So let me just save that word list and that pretty much concludes some of the advance cursor manipulation
that's going to help us out here and I'll see you all in the next lecture.